Good morning, Concord.
My name is Jay Burkett, and I'm a member of the pulpit ministry team.
And one of the responsibilities of the pulpit ministry team is to fill the pulpit every Sunday, because it's really important to have a preacher during the preaching time.
It took us three meetings to finally come to that consensus, and the guys talked about it, and Bonnie Stephanie all have her stood up and said, look, we've got to have a preacher during the preaching time, guys.
What are we talking about?
So that's one of our responsibilities.
And we are so blessed here at Concord because for the past eight weeks, this really is an indication of the strength of our congregation, the strength of our staff, just the strength of the body here at Concord because for the past eight weeks, we have been able to fill the pulpit with a member of our congregation in JoJo Thomas.
And two guys on staff, Jamie Smith and Brandon Roney, and they did not just feel the pulpit, but they did an outstanding job feeling the pulpit.
So just join me in thanking them and their willingness to do that.
They did a great job.
But with them feeling the pulpit, what that enabled us to do as a team is to focus all of our attention and efforts in trying to find and identify an interim senior pastor.
And so during that search, the Lord has led us to a man to consider for that that we would like to put before you to consider.
And he is here this morning.
We invited him to come and to fill the pulpit.
We're very, very excited about it.
And he'll do a little bit more of an introduction as to kind of who he is and what his background is.
So just join me in welcoming and let me introduce to you, Derek Spain.
Come on, Derek.
Thank you, Jay.
Thank you, man.
I am glad to be here.
Boy, God has been doing a great work at Concord for a lot of years and excited to be here today.
Some of the people who are connected Concord, you may know of a guy named Levi.
He and I went to seminary together a few years ago, and so known him for many years.
And then also, some of you have been here for Concord for a while, you may know the name of Steve Parr, and Steve is a guy that I've known for many, many years.
first brought me on staff at Hebering Church in Dacula as a student pastor a long time ago.
So I want to tell you a little bit about my family and a little bit about where God's had us through the years.
I want to welcome, though, all of the people of Concord, not just here on this campus, but on all the campuses and even streaming online.
I'm glad you've joined us because a Concord God is doing a great work.
Our family, Kim, and I have been married this week.
We celebrated 25 years of being married, so we're excited about that.
Yeah, it's a big deal.
We have three children.
Our oldest is in college.
We have two boys and a girl, so our oldest in college.
Our other son is just graduated from high school, and our daughter is about to be a sophomore at the Hula High School, so those are our kids.
As I said, I started as a student pastor at Hebrew, and I'm actually
and graduate of D'Cula High School many years ago, graduating group in that community.
Steve Parr, that's how I first knew him.
My dad was his baseball coach when he was in high school, so Steve remembers me when I was this big, chasing all his foul balls when he was trying to hit home runs.
But, I grew up and graduate of D'Cula High School also attended and met my wife at Shorter College, now Shorter University, and so that's where we met.
And then I was a student pastor here for 10 years, and then the Lord called us to the mountains of New York.
So after I actually went to seminary here in Atlanta, New Orleans seminary, but here in the Atlanta campus.
And then the Lord called us to the mountains of New York.
And we served there for 10 years.
I was the lead pastor of a church, Lake Placid Baptist Church.
His name is the church.
And then also I spent about half my time doing ministry with winter, sports,
athletes trying to get the gospel to bob sledters and ski jumpers and figure skaters and all these kind of people.
So it was a really exciting different kind of ministry and God worked in some amazing ways.
While we were in New York, our church grew and God also gave us the opportunity to plant a church about an hour away from us and then about 30 minutes away we had begun to plant another church when the Lord called us back to Georgia.
That church, that second one is now going, and it's strong, and so we praise God for that.
As I said, when we moved back, we loved New York, but we're from Georgia, and our kids, we only had two when we moved to New York, and we came back with three, right?
So we brought one and found one up there, and anyway, however that happened.
So we like to say it this way, because my wife, she's from Cobb County,
And we like to say we were two southerners who moved back home, but we brought three Yankees with us.
And so our kids had to actually go to the adjustment of, because they grew up in New York, and all they knew was New York.
And so they made the adjustment moving back here.
So for the last seven years or so, I had the opportunity to serve as the executive pastor of a Hebran church in Dicula.
And grateful to God for that.
And one of my roles as the number two guy there was to help the church because we went through an interim period.
And so from Pastor Kevin to Pastor Landon was actually 14 months.
And so my job was to help lead the staff during that transition and to lead the church during that transition.
And so grateful to God for that.
I'm really excited to be here this morning and we'll see what God has in the future and excited for Concord and exciting time.
And it's exciting every time, I'll say it this way, every time we get to interact with God's Word.
And so I hope you come on Sundays expecting to hear from God, but not just to hear, but also to obey.
Could I ask you to take your Bible and open to Matthew chapter nine and verse 35?
This morning I want us to talk about being on mission everywhere.
I know Concord, we talk about making disciples
Everywhere, part of that making disciples is realizing that everywhere we go, we are on mission with God and on mission for God.
I want us to look at these few verses in Matthew's Gospel this morning to see how Jesus went about his ministry and see how God can teach us from that.
And again, that we would hear and obey what God's cause to do.
Would you please stand with me for the reading of God's word?
Matthew chapter nine,
beginning in verse 35.
The Bible says this, Jesus continued going around to all the towns and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every sickness.
And when he saw the crowds, he felt compassion for them because they were distressed and dejected, like sheep without a shepherd.
And then he said to his disciples, the harvest is abundant, but the workers are few.
Therefore pray to the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.
Let's pray together.
Jesus, we thank you for your word.
We thank you for your Holy Spirit who is here in our midst.
And as we gather, we ask that Lord, our focus will be on you.
If either through your word, would you speak to us today that we would not just be here as of the word, but we would do what it says.
Through the power of your spirit,
in obedience to your word, as youth change our lives, may we live differently in this world.
It's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.
Matthew chapter nine, verse 35, is a summary of Jesus' early ministry.
And it shows us how he was on mission everywhere that he went.
And I wanna show you three big things today from this passage.
And I'll get right to number one.
The first one is this, I want us to see the crowds.
If we're going to be on mission everywhere, we have to see the crowds of people all around us.
It says in verse 36, when he saw the crowds, he felt compassion for them.
He did something.
It began though, before he did anything, he saw them.
He saw the crowds of people.
So let me ask you the question in your life.
Who are the crowds of people that you see every day?
If you're a student, teenagers, if you're a student, I'd be at school, but I mean, you're so excited, maybe in school, excited to get back at it.
But one of the things you have people around you every single day, all these crowds of people, other students, teachers, coaches,
All the faculty and staff, you have people around you every day.
Who are the crowns of people you see every day?
You know, when we're in our homes and in our neighborhoods, all of us, there's people around us all the time.
People around us, people that we know, if we live on a road and men, there's our neighbors.
They may be five miles away, maybe right next door.
We have people around us, we go to the grocery store, we go to shopping, everywhere that we go.
Adults, we go to our office, we're in our business, people in and out,
of our lives every day, people in and out of the business, we're going different places.
In other words, guys, here's the bottom line.
Just like Jesus, there's people around us.
We got to see them.
Who are the crowds of people that we see and that you see every single day?
If we're going to be on mission everywhere, we have to realize that these crowds of people, we have to see them like Jesus' song.
And like Jesus, notice the individuals
in the crowds.
You know, if you go to a football game, you're in a big stadium with lots of people.
There's crowd roaring, there's all these people, but these are individuals who are there.
And so spiritually speaking, if we're gonna see people the way Jesus did, we're gonna see the individuals all around us.
If you look at chapters eight and nine of Matthew's Gospel just quickly, you see that Jesus cleansed a man
who had leprosy.
These are how the headings in your Bible are helpful, by the way.
He cleansed the man with leprosy.
He saw the centurion's faith.
Jesus healed people at Capernaum.
Jesus with his disciples was on a boat and the winds and the waves obeyed him.
Jesus drives out demons that were afflicting people and gattering person in particular, too.
The son of man, he healed and forgives people, begin in chapter nine.
He calls Matthew to be one of his followers, to be one of his disciples, one of his learners.
He answers questions about fasting.
He takes time for that.
He restores a girl's life and he heals a woman who had been afflicted.
He heals a blind man.
He drives out demons.
What is the point of all this?
These are personal encounters people have with Jesus.
And so with each of us, we ask the question, who are the people that I see every day?
Let me give you an example.
When we were in New York doing ministry with winter sports athletes, one of the groups of people that was there were bobsledters.
Some of you know this sport of bobsled.
It's like a mile long water slide, but it's frozen, so it's a mile long ice chute.
And you get in this machine that holds either two or four people, weighing hundreds of pounds,
And you drive this thing about 95 miles an hour.
It does have a break, but you don't break it until the very end.
Because if you break, and it just grabs the ice, if you break it on the way down, you're going to crash.
So the break is like, just at the very end, so you don't flop the track, they break it so they can stop.
That's the true story.
Okay.
So you go in on this thing, I mean, just fearlessly.
Well, one of the guys that was a driver for the U.S. Bobsler team that we met
pretty early on in our time there.
His name was John.
He was one of the youngest drivers in the US bobsled team.
He was just a teenager at the time.
This guy, Daredevil.
Like all bobsled drivers, Daredevil.
Anything you could think of Daredevil, he would try.
I mean, today he's all into scuba diving and stuff like that.
He's always had a fast motorcycle.
You just get it.
I mean, he's just that kind of a guy.
So, John was a bobsled driver.
I've been driving since he was like probably under 10 years old because his parents were both in the sport back in the day.
I met his parents before I met him because we would volunteer and serve at this race, races, and got to know them.
And then they pointed out how this is my son, John.
Well, fast forward a little bit in time.
John's father came down with cancer.
It was stage four lung cancer.
And I heard that he was in the hospital.
And so I drove, like many of you would, two hours, right, drove to the hospital to visit his family.
So stalled John and his mom and his dad there in the hospital.
We had some prayer together and left.
A few weeks later, John's dad passed away.
It's really sad.
Dad passed away.
So again, got in the car, drove down to the funeral, was there with coaches and athletes and they were all there to support their friend John.
A few weeks later, I was walking in and about to start a Bible study that we had at the Olympic Training Center.
And I saw John, I said, John, hey, man, you will come to Bible study.
Well, he came.
And he told me later, much later.
He said, Derek, the reason I came was you had been nice to my family and me.
And so I thought I would come, at least to pay you back.
He says, the crazy thing happened.
I sat down in the Bible study and it wasn't boring.
That's like an indictment on our Bible studies, right?
He expected it to be boring, but it wasn't.
He got to hear athletes share their testimonies and for us to interact with God's word, guys within a few weeks, John had come to faith in Jesus Christ and his life was gloriously saved.
I'll be able to tell you in future weeks more about his story.
It's pretty amazing.
But the bottom line was not only me, but other believers had seen John.
And they saw that he was a person in need of God's love.
He needed hope.
How many of the people that you see every day, if you're going to see people, if you're going to notice the individuals in the crowd, do you think about does this person even know Jesus?
Where are they going to spend eternity?
We have to begin with noticing the individuals in the crowd.
So I would ask you, students, you might to school on your end class, how many of my friends know Jesus?
Folks, everywhere that we go, in our homes, our neighborhoods, our community, to the people we know, notice the individuals in the crowd.
So it begins, if we're gonna be on mission everywhere, we need to say, God, open my eyes.
That would see people the way Jesus saw them, the individuals in the crowds who need God's love.
Number two is this, not only see the crowds, number two, I want you to feel the compassion.
It says in verse 35, Jesus continued going around all the towns and villages, teaching in there,
synagogues preaching the good news of the kingdom, healing every disease and sickness.
When he saw the crowds, he felt compassion for them because they were distressed and dejected like sheep without a shepherd.
This word compassion literally means from the gut.
It was something that wasn't just like, I feel bad for them.
It bothered him.
Have you ever had that happen to you?
That I mean, you see something going on and it just like bothers you.
It just grips you in your gut.
That's the way Jesus was.
This compassion that he felt for them.
Why?
The Bible tells us they were distressed and dejected or other translations in English say they were weary and worn out, weary and scattered.
They were broken and they were battered.
They were just, I mean worn out
They were helpless and hopeless.
The people here were so helpless and hopeless.
And yet there's an interesting phrase in here in verse 36.
It says they were like sheep without a shepherd.
Now think about this.
The Bible talks about God being our great shepherd, right?
But spiritual leaders today pass the churches and in Jesus' day, the leaders of Israel
they were called to be the shepherds of the people of Israel.
So I have a question for you.
This is like you're gonna have to raise your hand a second.
All right, you gotta pick.
How many of you think that the people of Israel had shepherds when Jesus was there?
Because it says they were sheep without a shepherd.
Raise your hand if you think they had shepherds.
Okay, put your hands down.
Raise your hand if you think they didn't have shepherds.
Raise your hand if you wish.
Derek, just tell us.
Do they have shepherds or not?
Okay, yeah, just tell us.
They had shepherds, but the problem was the shepherds weren't shepherding.
And so many people that we know, they may even claim something spiritual.
They may even attend a church somewhere, but the question is do they really know Jesus?
These people, Jesus saw he had compassion on them
from the gut and like him, compassion for us needs to lead to action.
Compassion leads to action.
Let me show you what Jesus did, verse 35, it says three things.
Can you name a form?
Jesus did this and this and this.
What did he do?
He taught, he preached and he healed.
Yeah, he taught, he preached, he healed.
You know, the Bible talks about giving a cup of cold water in Jesus' name.
We talk about things that are ministries like giving food to people who are hungry, giving clothes to people who need clothing.
Obviously, one of the amazing things that all of Concord did this weekend and is doing this weekend is serve.
This serve weekend is compassion in action.
And it's awesome.
I mean, as you go to schools and do the
the work that is done there, whether it be some kind of service project, interacting with people.
When you go to people's homes and do these cleanups and really minister to people there, when you go and serve food with firefighters and police officers and those in hospitals and those who first respond in other ways, you go even to trailheads and give food to people who are hungry that are hiking because, man, they're about to hike, they're going to be hungry or they get off the trail, they're hungry.
But think about this.
We don't minister to the lawn mower, right?
We're cutting somebody's grass.
We're not minister to the lawn mower.
The lawn mower is a tool to minister to a person.
And so my challenge to you is your compassion, will you take the time to use whatever gifts and resources, not just once a year, but every day to say, God, use me.
I'm not going to wait.
Until next year to serve again, I want to do it every single day.
Think about Jesus.
Did he only serve people once a year?
Oh, everywhere he went, every day, he was on mission, everywhere.
Not too long ago, I was in, on the other side of the world, in Myanmar, or Burma.
Some people know it as Burma, Myanmar today.
And I was with some friends there who were doing ministry in that country.
And we were going with some locals, and we were going to a new neighborhood they were developing.
Now these neighborhoods were pole-built, thatched roof, huts.
And they were just, you know, made of bamboo poles, and they were for a person my size.
The people in Myanmar are a little smaller than me.
For a person my size, it was like a little bit scary to actually get up into the house because I was afraid the thing was gonna fall.
But it didn't, it was well-built.
But we were going, the people in Myanmar, for the most part, are Buddhist.
As a matter of fact, when we were there, they were having one of their national holidays, and it was estimated that a million people went to this one Buddhist temple on the day we were there, a million people in and out, crazy.
It's a hopeless religion, but this is what the people are, worshiping in that way.
So we were going,
hut to hut.
And we were bringing with us five gallon pales that some of our friends have gotten some engineers and scientists together.
They take five gallon pales and they take a clay pot link line with zinc.
And this clay pot line with zinc actually takes, you can put any water in it and it will fill to the water and will become drinking water.
And so we were taking these
which were very valuable to the people there, right?
And taking one per family and just going hut to hut and explaining why we were there, the translator would explain how to use the five gallon pail and this how it worked together and see if there any questions.
And then he would turn and say, and here's this guy from America who's going to tell you why he is here.
And that was my intro to explain the gospel.
And I would talk about how the God of the universe
He sent his son, Jesus, born of a virgin, lived a perfect life, died for us on the cross and rose again as a conquering King and Lord and draws people to salvation to everyone who will believe.
And we would go house to house and talk about Jesus.
And house to house when we would say, are you interested?
They would say, not interested.
And it was sad and we were sort of, oh,
We were dejected, right?
Because they kept saying no to Jesus.
But we got to this one house.
And at the end, as I shared, the translator looks at me and says, they're ready to believe.
I said, did they understand the question?
I mean, I was really, I have been said no to so many times.
I said, did they understand what you asked them, what I asked them?
He says, yes, they're ready.
I said, are you sure?
And he said, yes.
I asked him one more time.
I said, so they're ready to pray.
I got really specific.
They're ready to pray right now.
And he said, yes.
And we bowed our heads.
And only God knows what they did in their hearts.
Well, he did in their hearts.
But man, they prayed to receive Jesus as Lord and Savior.
Now the evidence that true salvation came was weeks later, we got an email from our ministry partners over there and they said, those people you guys went to visit, they're having a Bible study in their home now.
is becoming a new church.
So praise God their lives will change forever because of compassion and action.
So you never know when a simple invite to somebody to come to church will change their life.
You never know when spending time with someone over a cup of coffee is gonna minister to them.
So I would encourage you to say God, how are you leading me to show compassion
to others.
My question to you is this, how is God leading you to show compassion to others?
Not just once a year, but every day.
And it may be different today and different tomorrow, but say, God, use me.
Give me the kind of compassion Jesus had to minister to people in that way.
When you do, God will use you to change someone's life forever as you connect them to Jesus.
We continue to see and say, God, help me to see the crowds
Help me to feel the compassion.
Third thing is this.
I want us to hear the call.
Verse 37, this is the call that Jesus gave.
He says, then he said to his disciples and he says it to us.
The harvest is abundant or plentiful, but the workers are few.
Therefore, here's the call.
Pray to the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.
It's a call in three ways.
Number one, it's a call to pray.
It is a call to pray.
It's a call to pray for each one of us to say, God, there are lost people all around us.
Send people to them.
God may lay someone on your heart, somebody else from Concord, somebody else, even as a friend of yours or a family member, it's another believer that lives all the way across the world, across the country, across the state.
And you pray for them.
Maybe I encourage you,
If God leads you to pray for them, hey, maybe do this.
Write them a note, send them an email, send them a text and say, hey, man, you were on my heart.
God led me to pray for you today.
I pray that you'll be a witness for Christ today.
So pray for them and let them know that.
Man, it will be a blessing to them.
But I'm begging you in your prayer time to pray that God would send out workers into His harvest field around the world and in our communities.
that God would send out workers.
So it's a call to pray.
So maybe you're faithfully committed to that, and if you are, continue.
But maybe you've never thought about how, you've never thought about how your prayers can impact eternity.
Your prayers matter.
It's a call to pray.
Jesus says, ask the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.
So we're praying, God send them out.
Number two, it's a call to give.
If we are going to send them out, then some of them are going out as missionaries,
And we send them out financially.
And so I want to say, man, praise God for this church and our generous giving through the cooperative program, we support missionaries all around the world.
And so whether you give a little bit or a lot as God leads you to give, we support missions.
But we also support ministry and mission in our own community.
And so Concord uses these resources as a church.
We use these resources to impact the community.
So it's a continued call to give, to send out workers.
But it's also a call to go.
It's a call to go.
He says, therefore pray that the Lord of the harvest will send out workers into the harvest field.
And I want to show you this.
At the end of chapter nine, it's sort of like you got a group of guys there.
They're huddled up like a football huddle.
And they're huddled up, and Jesus says, all right, come here, boys, let's pray.
And they're praying, and they're praying, and he's saying, I want you to pray that God would send out workers into the harvest fields.
I'm praying, God send out workers.
God send them out, send them out.
And then at the end of chapter 9, it's like ready, break.
And then you get to chapter 10.
And Jesus calls them together and says, hey, boys, I'm sending you out.
Here's what we see in that.
Sometimes you're the answer to your very own prayer.
God, send out a missionary.
Maybe it's gonna be you.
I've got a friend named Dwayne who, from North Dakota, he led a business for decades, retired from his business.
God blessed him so he was able to retire even in his 50s, and he spent the next 20 years as a missionary in Southeast Asia.
You may think I'm too old.
You may think I'm too young.
It's a call for all of us to go.
I saw a young boy about, he was in middle school, who taught a young boy about this big, who was from Zimbabwe, how to use a little evangel cube to explain the gospel.
The boy from Zimbabwe
Saw a guy who was from Nepal.
This is true story.
This was in Clarkson, Georgia, not too long ago.
So a kid from America teaches a boy from Zimbabwe who shows a guy from Nepal, these pictures, and the guy from Nepal right there says, I want to receive Jesus.
You never know.
It's a call for all of us to go.
And so my question to you is, how will you respond today?
Will you say, God?
I will pray like never before.
God, I want to see through your eyes.
I want to see the crowds the way you see them.
I want to feel the compassion.
So today maybe you're just call God.
I want to be like Jesus in those ways.
For some of you, it may be a call to go.
I mean, you may have never thought about it before.
You may need to respond today and say, I don't know what this looks like,
Man, maybe I'm gonna be going out into the community, or I'm willing, if God's called me to go to the nations, I'll go to the nations.
Some of you may need to respond today with salvation.
Maybe you need to even come and become a member of this church, or even to say I wanna respond to Jesus' obedience through baptism.
So I wanna lead us in a word of prayer, and today I wanna ask you to respond the way God's letting you respond.
Let's pray together.
Heavenly Father, we love you.
And as we look at your word, we see Jesus.
And Lord, for those of us who know you as Lord and Savior, we have been saved by your grace.
We've been given your love and forgiveness, and you compel us, Lord, to be on mission everywhere.
And so God, only you know what you're doing in the hearts and lives of the people in this room.
But I pray that each of us would respond
that we would see people the way you see them.
We would feel your compassion as we see the crowds and feel the compassion and we would hear your call.
And God, maybe it's a call for us to pray that you would use us this week.
It's a call to give, it's a call to go.
Father, again, maybe there's other ways that we need to respond by becoming a member of this church.
Father, by even responding through
saying at some point in the future, I wanna be obedient to Jesus through baptism.
And so Father, I pray that each one of us would respond the way of your leading us to respond.
But now here in this room, I have a specific question for you before we sing, before I pray one more time.
Do you know Jesus as your Lord and savior?
If you say I don't yet know him as Lord and savior, then in just a moment, I'm gonna ask you to stand when we all stand
And I ask you to come to me or Brandon, one of the other leaders here at the front and just say, today I want to give my life to Christ.
Again, maybe you've given your life to Christ recently and you say, I want to be baptized.
We would love and celebrate with you and we'll get that set up soon.
Or maybe others who say, I want to become a member of this church.
This is the church where I want to serve the world.
I see what this church is all about and I'm all about that too.
And you want to come, so today,
I'm asking you to respond the way you need to respond.
Maybe others simply want to come and pray here at the front and just say, I want to continue to pray for our community and pray for Concord that God would use us as a church to be all he wants us to be.
Let me pray and we'll stand and we'll sing and you come.
Lord Jesus, we ask that you have your way now to this time of response, that each one of us would respond the way you're leading us to do that.
And we love you and Jesus and we pray, amen.
As we stand and sing, you come.